welcome to silver bowl channel and today
we're going to talk about barbecuing and
no I don't mean barbecuing with gas this
is the real thing this is with wood heat
beads and even a bit of hickory
therefore the smoke that gives you the
really nice smoky flavor I used to cook
on a gas barbecue as you can see I've
been converted this takes a bit more
work but really the old gas-fired
barbecue is just flying
it's not even grilling it's just frame
kidding yourself if you think it's a
real barbecue to file items and the even
matches or that light are there to get
it all started it's a very simple to
operate
obviously that lets more smoke and heat
out down the bottom there you've got
where the air goes in and let more air
in it'll get hotter let it down or get
colder and you can barbecue stuff for as
long as three for some people do even
eight hours if you want to really low
slow cooking smoke you know if you're
doing a side of ribs of that I haven't
tried that yet I'm going to do that in
the future so here we go we've got some
kindling piled up here a bit of overkill
that I had some waste Pinewood and we'll
get it started and I'll show you you
know you could just run it on wood if
you wanted you don't necessarily need
the heat feeds because they're a little
bit pricey but in a bowl of gas costs
you're but nowadays - if you're going to
go to the trouble of barbecuing you may
as well do it properly here's the
hickory wood treat that by putting it in
water first the reason for that is let
it soak up that water and when you chuck
it on the fire a little bit as you go
from out the cooking process that'll
smoke nicely this is a just you know at
burning away here you wouldn't
Hickory on there you want to put Hickory
on when you've got some coals and that's
just letting it then down there we'll
come back to it shortly most of these
you know those new barbecues we call it
barbecue it's really frying genuine
barbecue is using a slow heat to cook
things grilling is using a high heat to
cook things and frying is using you know
a flat hot piece of iron so it's getting
down there probably still a few too many
flames but you want that nice red coals
to cook on nice hot red coals and I'm
going to chuck some heat beads on I
wouldn't have to I could just use it
like it is there but I want to just show
you what the heat beads are like so
we'll check those on they basically
compress coal sometimes wood and they
don't put off much flame at all they're
mainly just there to get nice and the
hot they get a little bit of white ash
over them but they close nice and red
okay we put the meat on some sausages
chops and steaks and that's going to
taste real good put the lid on the
reason you do that is you want some of
that smoke to get into the meat you want
the smoke to help cook the meat you know
you don't want to heat too high you
certainly don't want any flames
otherwise you're going to burn it and
you want your meat to just come out of
nice brown color oh it's almost red
you'll see at the end of the video here
give a closer look you'll see the meat
almost looks red and that's the Hickory
cooking the meat with that we cut it
open here that's nice what they call a
smoke ring in your food that's just
really good eating have a look at that
that that's going to just taste really
good and that's cooking with a bit of
hickory real barbecue